README.md, before:

## Hangman Game

The Hangman game is a Python terminal game deployed to Heroku. Players attempt to guess a random word. Incorrect guesses result in a man being drawn piece by piece. If the word is guessed before the entire figure is displayed, the players win otherwise they lose.

Click [here](https://hangman-game-30a164540c0f.herokuapp.com/) to see the live website.

![Image of Dvice responsivneness](/documentation/images/herokuapp.png)

## How to play

This game is based on the hangman game:

* The hangman will select a word related to European countries.

* The hangman draws a line for each letter in the word.

* The guesser will guess one letter at a time. If the letter is in the word, the hangman will fill in the blanks with the correct guesses.

* If the letter is not in the word, the hangman will draw one body part for each incorrect guess: head, body, arm, and leg.

## Features

* The game show.
  * Welcome to the Hangman game!
  * The player has read the game rules.

![Image of game show](/documentation/images/game-rule.png)

* Name request input.
  * When the player enters their name, they will receive a welcome message.

![Image of name request](/documentation/images/enter-name.png)

* Show the instructions.
  * The game starts by showing live stages and a word, and then it starts the game.

![Image of instructions](/documentation/images/instructions%20.png)

* Guess a letter.
  * Players can press any letter of the alphabet on their keyboard to start the game.

![Image of guess a letter](/documentation/images/guess-letter.png)

* Guess correct. 
  * If the guessed letter is correct, a message is sent confirming its placement in the word.

![Image of correct](/documentation/images/guess-correct.png)

* Guess incorrect.
  * If the guessed letter is incorrect, players will receive a message indicating that the letter is not in the word.

![Image of incorrect](/documentation/images/guess-incorrect.png)

* Game win.
  * Players win the game by correctly guessing all the letters in the word. Once they do this, they receive a message informing them that they have guessed the word and won the game.

![Image of game win](/documentation/images/win-game.png)

* Game lose.
  * Players lose the game when they exhaust all incorrect guesses and the full graphic is displayed. In this scenario, they receive a message stating that they have lost.

![Image of game lose](/documentation/images/lose-game.png)

* Play again.
   * If the player want to play "start_over == 'y'"
	* If the player chooses not to "play start_over == 'n'"

![Image of game again](/documentation/images/play-again.png)

* Game end.
  * If they don't want to play again, a "Thank you for play and hope you enjoyed it. BYE!" message will be displayed.

![Image of game end](/documentation/images/game-end.png)

## Testing

* I used the CI Python linter on my code, and it raised a few issues, which are displayed in the image below.

![Image of test issues](/documentation/testing/test-issues.png)

* Line too long.
  * This error was raised as a result of the line of code being too long.

* Trailing whitespace.
  * The issue was resolved by removing the white space. This is self-explanatory.

* Blank line contains white space
  * The self-explanatory warning was resolved by removing the white spaces on a blank line.

* I tested the run.py file, and there were no errors or warnings.

![Image of no errors](/documentation/testing/no-errors.png)



## Flowchart

![Canva](/documentation/flowchart/canva)

## Deployment

Code Institute has provided a [template](https://github.com/Code-Institute-Org/python-essentials-template) to display the terminal view of this backend application in a modern web browser.
This is to improve the accessibility of the project to others.

The live deployed application can be found deployed on [Heroku](https://hangman-game-30a164540c0f.herokuapp.com).

### Heroku Deployment

This project uses [Heroku](https://www.heroku.com), a platform as a service (PaaS) that enables developers to build, run, and operate applications entirely in the cloud.

Heroku needs three additional files in order to deploy properly.

- requirements.txt
- Procfile
- runtime.txt

You can install this project's **requirements** (where applicable) using:

- `pip3 install -r requirements.txt`

If you have your own packages that have been installed, then the requirements file needs updated using:

- `pip3 freeze --local > requirements.txt`

The **Procfile** can be created with the following command:

- `echo web: node index.js > Procfile`

The **runtime.txt** file needs to know which Python version you're using:
1. type: `python3 --version` in the terminal.
2. in the **runtime.txt** file, add your Python version:
	- `python-3.9.18`

For Heroku deployment, follow these steps to connect your own GitHub repository to the newly created app:


### Local Deployment

This project can be cloned or forked in order to make a local copy on your own system.

For either method, you will need to install any applicable packages found within the *requirements.txt* file.

- `pip3 install -r requirements.txt`.

If using any confidential credentials, such as `CREDS.json` or `env.py` data, these will need to be manually added to your own newly created project as well.

#### Cloning

You can clone the repository by following these steps:

1. Go to the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/ciarangriffin93/Hangman-game) 
2. Locate the Code button above the list of files and click it 
3. Select if you prefer to clone using HTTPS, SSH, or GitHub CLI and click the copy button to copy the URL to your clipboard
4. Open Git Bash or Terminal
5. Change the current working directory to the one where you want the cloned directory
6. In your IDE Terminal, type the following command to clone my repository:
	- `git clone https://github.com/ciarangriffin93/Hangman-game.git`
7. Press Enter to create your local clone.

Alternatively, if using Gitpod, you can click below to create your own workspace using this repository.

[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/ciarangriffin93/Hangman-game)

Please note that in order to directly open the project in Gitpod, you need to have the browser extension installed.
A tutorial on how to do that can be found [here](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/configure/user-settings/browser-extension).

#### Forking

By forking the GitHub Repository, we make a copy of the original repository on our GitHub account to view and/or make changes without affecting the original owner's repository.
You can fork this repository by using the following steps:

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/ciarangriffin93/Hangman-game)
2. At the top of the Repository (not top of page) just above the "Settings" Button on the menu, locate the "Fork" Button.
3. Once clicked, you should now have a copy of the original repository in your own GitHub account!

## Technologies Used

languages used:

* [Python](https://www.python.org/): Used to provide functionality to the site.

* [Git](https://git-scm.com): Used write Git to commit and push the code for the development of the website. 

* [Gitpod](https://gitpod.io): Cloud IDE was used to write, commit, and push code to GitHub.

* [Github](https://github.com): Used frequently to commit and push code.

* [Heroku](https://dashboard.heroku.com/apps): Deploy a live version of the terminal.

* [OS](https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.html): Used to clear the terminal.

* [Fancy-text-pro](https://www.fancytextpro.com/): Used to create art with text.

* [Canva](https://www.canva.com/online-whiteboard/flowcharts/): Used create a flowchart for project preparation.

* [CI-Python-Linter](https://pep8ci.herokuapp.com/): Used display warnings and errors to assess code quality.

## Credit

#### Content:

* [W3schools](https://www.w3schools.com/python/) This site was created using information from Code Institute and W3Schools.

* [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m4nEnsavl6w&t=466s) This is meant to be used for learning how to create a quiz in python.

## Acknowledgements

* I would like to thank to my mentor, Tim Nelson, for his help and unwavering support.

* I would like to thank to my tutor at Code Institute for their help and unwavering support.

* I would like to thank to my family for their patience, support, and understanding.

* I would like to Code Institute's Slack community,and Deaf group for their support.

Commit message:

Update manual test to readme

README.md, after:

## Hangman Game

The Hangman game is a Python terminal game deployed to Heroku. Players attempt to guess a random word. Incorrect guesses result in a man being drawn piece by piece. If the word is guessed before the entire figure is displayed, the players win otherwise they lose.

Click [here](https://hangman-game-30a164540c0f.herokuapp.com/) to see the live website.

![Image of Dvice responsivneness](/documentation/images/herokuapp.png)

## How to play

This game is based on the hangman game:

* The hangman will select a word related to European countries.

* The hangman draws a line for each letter in the word.

* The guesser will guess one letter at a time. If the letter is in the word, the hangman will fill in the blanks with the correct guesses.

* If the letter is not in the word, the hangman will draw one body part for each incorrect guess: head, body, arm, and leg.

## Features

* The game show.
  * Welcome to the Hangman game!
  * The player has read the game rules.

![Image of game show](/documentation/images/game-rule.png)

* Name request input.
  * When the player enters their name, they will receive a welcome message.

![Image of name request](/documentation/images/enter-name.png)

* Show the instructions.
  * The game starts by showing live stages and a word, and then it starts the game.

![Image of instructions](/documentation/images/instructions%20.png)

* Guess a letter.
  * Players can press any letter of the alphabet on their keyboard to start the game.

![Image of guess a letter](/documentation/images/guess-letter.png)

* Guess correct. 
  * If the guessed letter is correct, a message is sent confirming its placement in the word.

![Image of correct](/documentation/images/guess-correct.png)

* Guess incorrect.
  * If the guessed letter is incorrect, players will receive a message indicating that the letter is not in the word.

![Image of incorrect](/documentation/images/guess-incorrect.png)

* Game win.
  * Players win the game by correctly guessing all the letters in the word. Once they do this, they receive a message informing them that they have guessed the word and won the game.

![Image of game win](/documentation/images/win-game.png)

* Game lose.
  * Players lose the game when they exhaust all incorrect guesses and the full graphic is displayed. In this scenario, they receive a message stating that they have lost.

![Image of game lose](/documentation/images/lose-game.png)

* Play again.
   * If the player want to play "start_over == 'y'"
	* If the player chooses not to "play start_over == 'n'"

![Image of game again](/documentation/images/play-again.png)

* Game end.
  * If they don't want to play again, a "Thank you for play and hope you enjoyed it. BYE!" message will be displayed.

![Image of game end](/documentation/images/game-end.png)

## Testing

* I used the CI Python linter on my code, and it raised a few issues, which are displayed in the image below.

![Image of test issues](/documentation/testing/test-issues.png)

* Line too long.
  * This error was raised as a result of the line of code being too long.

* Trailing whitespace.
  * The issue was resolved by removing the white space. This is self-explanatory.

* Blank line contains white space
  * The self-explanatory warning was resolved by removing the white spaces on a blank line.

* I tested the run.py file, and there were no errors or warnings.

![Image of no errors](/documentation/testing/no-errors.png)

### Manual testing

* Manually tested the game the following:

| Action        | Expected Behaviour  | Result | 
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| Player enters name  | Will prompt the player to word to guess | pass |
| Enter a number, space and hit Enter  | Display Invalid input: Please enter letters a valid your name | pass |
| Enter two than one letter and hit Enter | Display Invalid input: Please enter a single letter.  | Pass |
| Enter Number and hit Enter | Display Invalid input: Please enter using a letter.  | Pass |
| Enter a correct letter and hit Enter | Will display letter is correct word | pass |
| Enter an incorrect letter and hit Enter| Will display letter is not the word | Pass |
| Enter a letter that has been previously guessed and hit Enter | Will display You have already used the letter. | Pass |
| Guess the word before attempts are finished| Will display Well done! You guessed the word was | Pass |
| Attempts finished | Will display You died, sorry! The word was | Pass |
| Letter is incorrect  | incorrect guesses left  decrement by 1 | pass | 
| Letter is incorrect  | A piece of the graphic is show | pass | 
| Press ‘Y’ to play again|  The game will replay  | Pass | 
| Press ’N’ to finish the game| Will display Thank you for play! Hope you enjoyed it!! Bye! End of game | Pass | 

## Flowchart

![Canva](/documentation/flowchart/canva)

## Deployment

Code Institute has provided a [template](https://github.com/Code-Institute-Org/python-essentials-template) to display the terminal view of this backend application in a modern web browser.
This is to improve the accessibility of the project to others.

The live deployed application can be found deployed on [Heroku](https://hangman-game-30a164540c0f.herokuapp.com).

### Heroku Deployment

This project uses [Heroku](https://www.heroku.com), a platform as a service (PaaS) that enables developers to build, run, and operate applications entirely in the cloud.

Heroku needs three additional files in order to deploy properly.

- requirements.txt
- Procfile
- runtime.txt

You can install this project's **requirements** (where applicable) using:

- `pip3 install -r requirements.txt`

If you have your own packages that have been installed, then the requirements file needs updated using:

- `pip3 freeze --local > requirements.txt`

The **Procfile** can be created with the following command:

- `echo web: node index.js > Procfile`

The **runtime.txt** file needs to know which Python version you're using:
1. type: `python3 --version` in the terminal.
2. in the **runtime.txt** file, add your Python version:
	- `python-3.9.18`

For Heroku deployment, follow these steps to connect your own GitHub repository to the newly created app:


### Local Deployment

This project can be cloned or forked in order to make a local copy on your own system.

For either method, you will need to install any applicable packages found within the *requirements.txt* file.

- `pip3 install -r requirements.txt`.

If using any confidential credentials, such as `CREDS.json` or `env.py` data, these will need to be manually added to your own newly created project as well.

#### Cloning

You can clone the repository by following these steps:

1. Go to the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/ciarangriffin93/Hangman-game) 
2. Locate the Code button above the list of files and click it 
3. Select if you prefer to clone using HTTPS, SSH, or GitHub CLI and click the copy button to copy the URL to your clipboard
4. Open Git Bash or Terminal
5. Change the current working directory to the one where you want the cloned directory
6. In your IDE Terminal, type the following command to clone my repository:
	- `git clone https://github.com/ciarangriffin93/Hangman-game.git`
7. Press Enter to create your local clone.

Alternatively, if using Gitpod, you can click below to create your own workspace using this repository.

[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/ciarangriffin93/Hangman-game)

Please note that in order to directly open the project in Gitpod, you need to have the browser extension installed.
A tutorial on how to do that can be found [here](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/configure/user-settings/browser-extension).

#### Forking

By forking the GitHub Repository, we make a copy of the original repository on our GitHub account to view and/or make changes without affecting the original owner's repository.
You can fork this repository by using the following steps:

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/ciarangriffin93/Hangman-game)
2. At the top of the Repository (not top of page) just above the "Settings" Button on the menu, locate the "Fork" Button.
3. Once clicked, you should now have a copy of the original repository in your own GitHub account!

## Technologies Used

languages used:

* [Python](https://www.python.org/): Used to provide functionality to the site.

* [Git](https://git-scm.com): Used write Git to commit and push the code for the development of the website. 

* [Gitpod](https://gitpod.io): Cloud IDE was used to write, commit, and push code to GitHub.

* [Github](https://github.com): Used frequently to commit and push code.

* [Heroku](https://dashboard.heroku.com/apps): Deploy a live version of the terminal.

* [OS](https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.html): Used to clear the terminal.

* [Fancy-text-pro](https://www.fancytextpro.com/): Used to create art with text.

* [Canva](https://www.canva.com/online-whiteboard/flowcharts/): Used create a flowchart for project preparation.

* [CI-Python-Linter](https://pep8ci.herokuapp.com/): Used display warnings and errors to assess code quality.

## Credit

#### Content:

* [W3schools](https://www.w3schools.com/python/) This site was created using information from Code Institute and W3Schools.

* [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m4nEnsavl6w&t=466s) This is meant to be used for learning how to create a quiz in python.

## Acknowledgements

* I would like to thank to my mentor, Tim Nelson, for his help and unwavering support.

* I would like to thank to my tutor at Code Institute for their help and unwavering support.

* I would like to thank to my family for their patience, support, and understanding.

* I would like to Code Institute's Slack community,and Deaf group for their support.
